Hello everyone and welcome to the tree methods project solutions part 2 video lecture in part 1.
We went ahead and got data perform some exploratory data analysis on that college data set using cheesy
plot too.
And then we actually built a decision tree model using that data as a training set.
Now we're going to go ahead and move on to using a random forced model.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio and get started.
OK here we are our studio.
In order to get started make sure we have the following lines of code actually calling the college data
set and then actually having the train test split.
You should already have all this code from part 1 of the video lecture series.
If not go ahead.
Go back to Part 1.
In case you need a refresher on any of this code.
But now that we're at part two.
Let's go ahead and train some random forest models.
First thing we have to do is called the random forest library and go ahead and push this on the console
.
And we're going to go ahead a car ran the forest library and now that we've called the random forest
library we can just use the random force function to build out the model and then create a variable
called our model called the random forest function.
And then to pasan a formula.
I want to predict pry it off of all the features and my data is going to be my training data that train
variable.
Something else I told you to do in the assignment was to say importance equal to true and the importance
is just the extractor function for variable importance measures that are produced by the random forest
function and go ahead and look up the reading and the notes for what the actual important measurement
is.
It's something called the genie in spirit or a genie impurity index and it's essentially a measure of
how much information you get when you do a certain split on a certain value and how you actually judge
that.
You can go ahead and train the random forest model and now since it's trained we can just directly call
it confusion matrix off the model by saying R.F. thought model and then call confusion.
Remember this is just a confusion on the training data.
Not on our test data we have to actually make predictions in order to do the true confusion matrix offer
test data.
But here we can get a good idea of the classification error just based off the training data.
Looks like we're doing okay.
And but it also looks like it's easier to predict that.
Yes it is a private school versus.
No it's not private school.
And that makes sense because there was a lot more private school data in the actual data set.
And because we saw the importance equal to true what we can also do now is say our model and call importance
offer the model and this will give you the importance based off of the Genie impurity index values.
Again go ahead and read in the introduction system learning sections for random forest and tree methods
.
If you want more background that how to actually interpret these numbers here since it's outside of
the scope of this particular lecture as far as the mathematics of how to interpret these values we'll
go ahead and just move on.
So you're actually getting predictions which is a little more practical.
I'm going to go ahead and say our f creds for random for his predictions.
I'm going to call predict pass in y our model and then pass in my test set.
And then after that I could just call table Hassen RF predictions and from my test data and the private
.
And there we have it.
And if we compare this to the confusion matrix for that decision tree it performed just slightly better
on certain aspect and the pending on your definition of better weather trying to minimize type 1 or
Type 2 error the random forest model performed either better or maybe slightly worse than the decision
tree.
But depending on what the cost is associated versus a type 1 Type 2 error or precision recon accuracy
it kind of depends on how to actually interpret the goodness of fit or the evaluation of your model
.
But we can see that overall it did perform pretty well.
Okay.
That's it for the random forest.
Part 2 section is pretty short.
But hopefully you realize that it just makes it very easy to create ran the forest models or any other
model for that matter or just passing in the formula.
The training data and then getting predictions off your model.
OK thanks Ron.
Hope you enjoy the project and I'll see at the next lecture.